Release N50 (#1496)
rust-gamedev/rust-gamedev.github.io: content/news/050/index.md

[Way of Rhea][wor] just got a release date: it will be coming to Steam on
**May 20th, 2024**!

Way of Rhea ([Steam](https://store.steampowered.com/app/1110620/Way_of_Rhea/)) is a color based puzzle game with difficult puzzles, but forgiving

> mechanics being developed by [@masonremaley] in a custom engine.

Reviewer: I think Rust isn't necessarily implied here, since some projects might only use Rust for part of the game. I think it would be good to keep the specifics in.

```suggestion
mechanics being developed by [@masonremaley] in a custom Rust engine.
```

You can support development by [wishlisting Way of Rhea on Steam][wor], or
[signing up for the mailing list][wor-mail].

> The most important updates are:

Reviewer: nit: wordy way of saying the same thing I think?

update: seems like this wording is because items are being removed (addressing that in another comment). I think staying on "Recent updates" makes more sense still.

Author: [`44c261b` (#1496)](https://github.com/rust-gamedev/rust-gamedev.github.io/pull/1496/commits/44c261b5cd65f664854a03a9ead0951a1d145f9a)

- A [closed beta][wor-closed-beta] began
- All characters now have voices
- Various [speedrunning features][wor-speedrun] were added

> For the full changelog, see the [release notes][wor-release-notes].

Reviewer: Instead of removing this list, can we turn it into a paragraph if it comes out too long? It isn't great removing someone's content after it was merged. Will make a suggestion comment.

Reviewer: Actually there isn't a great way for me to suggest over this whole block, so I'll just post it here:
```
Recently, a [closed beta][wor-closed-beta] began. All characters now have
voices, and various [speedrunning features][wor-speedrun] were added. A [reset
button][wor-reset] was added for when undo is inconvenient. Speech bubbles now
[identify the speaker][wor-speech-bubble], and orbs are now shown with an "xray"
effect so they are visible even when behind scenery. Older CPUs without AVX
support are [now supported][wor-avx]. Secrets were made harder, and an [in-game
achievement UI][wor-achievements] was created. An [in-game Jukebox
UI][wor-jukebox] was also created.

For the full changelog, see the [release notes][wor-release-notes].
```

Author: I intentionally removed some content after feedback that the newsletter contained too many details most people don't care about. Personally, as a contributor, I would expect the editors to chop up my content however they think is best before release.

Reviewer: re: community feedback, is that part of what's coming in from the survey, or was it discussed somewhere else?

I think this is fair though, the new paragraph looks good. It would be good for us to do a pass over instructions of writing sections for the newsletter so that any feedback is incorporated, once that all comes out 💯

[Way of Rhea][wor] just got a release date: it will be coming to Steam on
**May 20th, 2024**!

> Way of Rhea ([Steam](https://store.steampowered.com/app/1110620/Way_of_Rhea/)) is a color based puzzle game with difficult puzzles, but forgiving

Reviewer 2: I think it's fine to have "inline links", but as historically **ALL** links were defined with a label I'm just noting this to start the discussion, just so we're clear about the expectations.

Author: Yeah, I noticed that too. Agreed, it's good to point this out.
I removed the lints for that intentionally because it doesn't matter for markdown that is not maintained after the post goes up. I can change it back if other maintainers disagree, but I'd prefer to be relaxed about this.

![You are Merlin screenshot](you-are-merlin.png)

You are Merlin ([Web Game][you-are-merlin-web], [GitHub - Rust/CLI][you-are-merlin-github], [GitHub - WASM][you-are-merlin-www-github]) by [@hseager](https://github.com/hseager)
is a text adventure game that compiles to both CLI and WebAssembly.

This initial version features a main quest, side quests, items and a boss fight.

> Players can choose their favourite visual theme such as Zelda, Warcraft and Fallout. There is also mobile support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Players can choose their favourite visual theme such as Zelda, Warcraft, and Fallout. There is also mobile and web support.
```

Author: Misleading: there is only CLI and web. The web version supports mobile devices.

Author: Counteroffer: [`5fa2fed` (#1496)](https://github.com/rust-gamedev/rust-gamedev.github.io/pull/1496/commits/5fa2fed7dfbe48aee35e083387b3ba4a6a10fa8e)

Reviewer: Looks good, but can we also add the comma after "Warcraft"?

Reviewer: Actually I added a few others as well, should be easier to merge from a PR https://github.com/rust-gamedev/rust-gamedev.github.io/pull/1503

## Engine Updates

> ### Bottomless-Pit 0.3.1

Reviewer: I think it's worth leaving in version number, since it suggests a new version was released, instead of just general progress on a project. For example, I imagine we'd have a Bevy release's section titled `Bevy 0.XX` to signify the importance.

Author: Good point, but then I'd like to omit the patch version, as otherwise it seems like we will be talking about some minor bugfixes only. As far as I can tell, this entry concerns `0.13.0` and `0.13.1`, so I'll write it as `0.13`

Author: [`44c261b` (#1496)](https://github.com/rust-gamedev/rust-gamedev.github.io/pull/1496/commits/44c261b5cd65f664854a03a9ead0951a1d145f9a)

- System UI hiding via jni and Android API
- Building AAB files to meet Google Play requirements

[android-games-blog]: https://maciejglowka.com/blog/building-games-for-android-with-rust/

### Bevy: A case study in ergonomic Rust

[Chris Biscardi][chris-yt] was at RustNation UK recently and gave talk on Bevy's 
Rusty ergonomics titled [Bevy: A case study in ergonomic Rust][case-study-video]. 
In their own words:

> There's at least two, if not three, talks worth of material around how Bevy progressively discloses complexity 
across multiple "stacks" of APIs; and the work done so far is very impressive in terms 
of how it all fits together especially as a large-and-growing OSS project.

[chris-yt]: https://www.youtube.com/c/chrisbiscardi
[case-study-video]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CnoDOc6ML0Y

### Reactivity in Bevy: From the Bottom Up

TODO: <https://machinewords.hashnode.dev/reactivity-in-bevy-from-the-bottom-up-part-1>

## Library Updates

### Jolt Bindings

> TODO: <https://docs.rs/joltc-sys/0.1.1+Jolt-5.0.0/joltc_sys/>

Reviewer 2: a todo (or toremove?)

Author: Still working on it :)

[lightyear_release]: https://github.com/cBournhonesque/lightyear/releases/tag/0.13.0
[lightyear_examples]: https://github.com/cBournhonesque/lightyear/tree/main/examples

## Other News

Alice I. Cecile of the Bevy Foundation would like to collect community feedback
on game development in Rust. Please fill out [her survey](https://forms.gle/kLzv5Ww3U8dLGUHU8)!

## Discussions

> LogLog games has published a [very well-written blog post](https://loglog.games/blog/leaving-rust-gamedev/>) about reasons people might have to leave Rust gamedev.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
LogLog games has published a [very well-written blog post](https://loglog.games/blog/leaving-rust-gamedev/>) about their reasons to leave Rust gamedev.
```

it's less strong than their "decision", but still the article is clearly written on their particular perspective.
